#+TITLE: eyebrowse-restore

Never lose your [[https://depp.brause.cc/eyebrowse/][Eyebrowse]]
window configurations again.

** Installation

The package is not available on MELPA yet, please use Quelpa (or your
preferred package manager) to install.

#+BEGIN_SRC emacs-lisp
(use-package eyebrowse-restore
  :ensure t
  :quelpa (eyebrowse-restore
           :fetcher github
           :repo "FrostyX/eyebrowse-restore"
           :branch "main"))
#+END_SRC

** Usage

All Eyebrowse window configurations for all Emacs frames are
automatically saved with a periodicity of
~eyebrowse-restore-save-interval~. If you want to invoke this action
manually, run ~M-x eyebrowse-restore-save-all~.

Apart from that, when closing an Emacs frame, its Eyebrowse window
configurations are saved beforehand.

After an Emacs crash, god forbid, simply run ~M-x
eyebrowse-restore-restore~ to use Eyebrowse workspace from a backup of
your choice.

[[images/eyebrowse-restore.png]]

** Background

Eyebrowse separates window configurations per Emacs frame (in opposite
to Emacs instance). This is intended behavior and it is rooted in the
implementation details. In a daemon setup, window configurations are
assigned to an ~emacsclient~ frame instead of the daemon instance,
i.e. closing an ~emacsclient~ destroys all of its Eyebrowse window
configurations.

Making window configurations shared across all Emacs frames is a
controversial topic because the use-case is nonsensical for the
majority of users.

The main issue for me is not the absence of sharing window
configurations across all frames but recovering from reboots, window
manager crashes, Emacs crashes, or anything else that results in
having to spawn a new Emacs instance from scratch.

Thanks to the
[[https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Saving-Emacs-Sessions.html#Saving-Emacs-Sessions][desktop.el]],
Eyebrowse supports persistent window configurations with one caveat -
it is reliable only for single-frame use. When using multiple Emacs
frames, it depends in what order the frames are closed, and only the
last one is remembered.

The ~eyebrowse-restore~ prevents you from losing the window
configurations for the rest of the frames.
